---
layout: post
title: Automating process of making Pull request
---

<p>I am writting a post nearly after a gap of one year, reason being I had been busy in various college activities. Recently I joined a company as an intern where I am working in their backend team. The title of post already suggests about it's content but before diving into it, I would like to discuss the reason for developing <a href="https://github.com/zealfire/Termipull">Termipull</a>. Like many other people, the code collaborating platform which I used in my daily work is Bitbucket.</p>
<p>The workflow which I follow in my day to day work is that when I am working on a new feature or a bug, I create a new branch from my master branch and make require changes in the code while staying in the newly created branch. Once I am sure about the code, I commit those changes. After commiting those changes the only things remaining to do are pushing those changes to the branch I am working on and then finally making a pull request. Obviously before making a PR you want to be sure that your current branch is UpToDate with your origin's master.</p>
<p>The reason for making <a href="https://github.com/zealfire/Termipull">Termipull</a> was to save the amount of time which I was wasting while making a PR. The process of making PR on bitbucket is cumbersome because for pushing the commits you everytime need to enter your username and password and once you have done this in order to finally make a PR you need to use Create pull request button present on the create pull request, web page of your forked repository.</p>
<p>So in order to save my time I decided to create <a href="https://github.com/zealfire/Termipull">Termipull</a>. Right now it has been made to suite my needs in my current workplace but anyone who is familiar with git and after reading the documentation can modify the code according to their requirement.</p>
<p> The code currently present has not been properly tested and does not raises error or checks for error. It is something which I would be adding in coming days. Also it is humble request to make suggestions and point out errors to make the <a href="https://github.com/zealfire/Termipull">Termipull</a> more better. Any help in making <a href="https://github.com/zealfire/Termipull">Termipull</a> better is appreciated.</p>